README.md, before:

# TAWS

TAWS or **T**ools for **AWS** is a collection of various codes and tools, that I wish I had when I needed them the most.

## Tools and codes we have

- [Force download files from s3 bucket using lambda function](#forceD)
- [Copy security group rules](#sgcopy)

## forceD

forceD or forceDownload is the script that I had to figure out the hard way. When I was unable to find a working solution anywhere on the internet, I decided to write it on my own.

Most of the solutions for applying forced download of files from s3 out there, involves creating a pre-signed URL and setting **content-disposition** header to *attachment*.

But in my case I needed to set the header irrespective of the mode of upload.

### How to use

1. Activate events in the required s3 bucket(s) for lambda function [learn how](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/user-guide/enable-event-notifications.html "AWS docs").
2. Select all write operations for notification trigger.
3. Assign proper permissions to enable lambda function to read and write from and to s3 buckets.
4. Copy and paste the forceD.py to your lambda function.
5. Customize the script as per your needs.
6. Save the function using *Save* Button.
7. Test the function using *Test* button. If you find any compile time errors, make changes and go to step 6
8. Upload any file to any folder in bucket and see the changes.

**Note**: Any compile time issue found in the lambda function can only be because of any modifications made by you. I've taken utmost care to make sure that the script is error-free. If you still find any errors do let me know

### How does the script work

#### Variables Used
|variable name           | Use |
|:----------------------:|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| bucket                 | It used to store the bucket name that triggered the function                                                                                                    |
| key                    | It stores the name of the object that was uploaded                                                                                                              |
| objectUploadedInFolder | This tells the script whether the object is stored in a folder within the bucket or uploaded simply to the bucket. [see here](#improvements-forceD)             |
| source                 | The location of the file uploaded                                                                                                                               |
| destination            | Location of file in uploads folder where new file will be created                                                                                               |
| path                   | Use this variable as destination if you do not want your new file name to have a plus sign instead of spaces,e.g., "hello there.txt" instead of hello+there.txt |

#### Methodology
Whenever any file is uploaded to any folder in the bucket, the lambda function is triggered. This function will then copy the object uploaded, the object that triggered it, and while copying will set it's content-disposition value to attachment.

### Improvements to be made
- [ ] The script is unable to do the copy task for files that are not uploaded to any folder and rather directly to s3 base directory.

<p>&nbsp;</p>

## sgcopy

![alt text](https://github.com/anirudhdggl/taws/blob/master/docs/images/sgcopy_screenshot.png)

AWS provides users with customizable firewalls for instances. These firewalls are called SG or security groups. Although you can attach many SG to an instance, but doing so makes your configurations very cumbersome and confusing.

So I personally prefer keeping **one** security group for all the instances, most of the time.

But what if the rules that you want in your SG is a sum of two other SG's rules? Or what if you want to add rules to your SG that are already present in some other SG?

Well for such cases, to make sure that we do not go through a lot of manual process, we use *sgcopy*.

### How to use

To run the script you need to have aws-cli configured.

Install the aws-cli and then run:

```aws configure```

The script uses AWS SDK for python. So you must have it with you.

```pip3 install boto3```

After that, run

``` path/to/your/script/sgcopy.py arguments ```

#### Argument List

| Argument    | Mandatory | Description                                                                                                                                |
|:-----------:|:---------:|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| --id        | No        | This is an optional argument and you may use it if you are using security group ID to identify the source and destination security groups. |
| source      | Yes       | The ID or name of the source SG                                                                                                            |
| destination | Yes       | The ID or name of the destination SG                                                                                                       |

#### Example usage

```./sgcopy --id sg-294840 sg-284193```
**OR**
```./sgcopy sgdemo sgdemo-sg```


>For any improvements and suggestions feel free to open an issue, pull request or contact me.

Commit message:

changed the main readme for wordpress sync

README.md, after:

# TAWS

TAWS or **T**ools for **AWS** is a collection of various codes and tools, that I wish I had when I needed them the most.

## Tools and codes we have

- [Force download files from s3 bucket using lambda function](#forceD)
- [Copy security group rules](#sgcopy)

## forceD

forceD or forceDownload is the script that I had to figure out the hard way. When I was unable to find a working solution anywhere on the internet, I decided to write it on my own.

Most of the solutions for applying forced download of files from s3 out there, involves creating a pre-signed URL and setting **content-disposition** header to *attachment*.

But in my case I needed to set the header irrespective of the mode of upload.

### How to use

1. Activate events in the required s3 bucket(s) for lambda function [learn how](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/user-guide/enable-event-notifications.html "AWS docs").
2. Select all write operations for notification trigger.
3. Assign proper permissions to enable lambda function to read and write from and to s3 buckets.
4. Copy and paste the forceD.py to your lambda function.
5. Customize the script as per your needs.
6. Save the function using *Save* Button.
7. Test the function using *Test* button. If you find any compile time errors, make changes and go to step 6
8. Upload any file to any folder in bucket and see the changes.

**Note**: Any compile time issue found in the lambda function can only be because of any modifications made by you. I've taken utmost care to make sure that the script is error-free. If you still find any errors do let me know

### How does the script work

#### Variables Used
|variable name           | Use |
|:----------------------:|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| bucket                 | It used to store the bucket name that triggered the function                                                                                                    |
| key                    | It stores the name of the object that was uploaded                                                                                                              |
| objectUploadedInFolder | This tells the script whether the object is stored in a folder within the bucket or uploaded simply to the bucket. [see here](#improvements-forceD)             |
| source                 | The location of the file uploaded                                                                                                                               |
| destination            | Location of file in uploads folder where new file will be created                                                                                               |
| path                   | Use this variable as destination if you do not want your new file name to have a plus sign instead of spaces,e.g., "hello there.txt" instead of hello+there.txt |

#### Methodology
Whenever any file is uploaded to any folder in the bucket, the lambda function is triggered. This function will then copy the object uploaded, the object that triggered it, and while copying will set it's content-disposition value to attachment.

### Improvements to be made
- [ ] The script is unable to do the copy task for files that are not uploaded to any folder and rather directly to s3 base directory.

<p>&nbsp;</p>

## sgcopy

![alt text](https://github.com/anirudhdggl/taws/blob/master/docs/images/sgcopy_screenshot.png)

AWS provides users with customizable firewalls for instances. These firewalls are called SG or security groups. Although you can attach many SG to an instance, but doing so makes your configurations very cumbersome and confusing.

So I personally prefer keeping **one** security group for all the instances, most of the time.

But what if the rules that you want in your SG is a sum of two other SG's rules? Or what if you want to add rules to your SG that are already present in some other SG?

Well for such cases, to make sure that we do not go through a lot of manual process, we use *sgcopy*.

### How to use

To run the script you need to have aws-cli configured.

Install the aws-cli and then run:

```aws configure```

The script uses AWS SDK for python. So you must have it with you.

```pip3 install boto3```

After that, run

``` path/to/your/script/sgcopy.py arguments ```

#### Argument List

| Argument    | Mandatory | Description                                                                                                                                |
|:-----------:|:---------:|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| --id        | No        | This is an optional argument and you may use it if you are using security group ID to identify the source and destination security groups. |
| source      | Yes       | The ID or name of the source SG                                                                                                            |
| destination | Yes       | The ID or name of the destination SG                                                                                                       |

#### Example usage

```./sgcopy --id sg-294840 sg-284193```
**OR**
```./sgcopy sgdemo sgdemo-sg```

## Wordpress sync

This script in itself has a directory. So for sake of convinience it's readme has been placed in it's own directory.


>For any improvements and suggestions feel free to open an issue, pull request or contact me.
